Just today, a stranger came to my door claiming he was here to unclog
a bathroom drain. I let him into my house without verifying his
identity, and not only did he repair the drain, he also took off his
shoes so he wouldn't track mud on my floors. When he was done, I gave
him a piece of paper that asked my bank to give him some money. He
accepted it without a second glance. At no point did he attempt to
take my possessions, and at no point did I attempt the same of him. In
fact, neither of us worried that the other would. My wife was also
home, but it never occurred to me that he was a sexual rival and I
should therefore kill him. Also today, I passed several strangers on
the street without any of them attacking me. I bought food from a
grocery store, not at all concerned that it might be unfit for human
consumption. I locked my front door, but didn't spare a moment's worry
at how easy it would be for someone to smash my window in. Even people
driving cars, large murderous instruments that could crush me like a
bug, didn't scare me. Most amazingly, this worked without much overt
security. I don't carry a gun for self-defense, nor do I wear body
armor. I don't use a home burglar alarm. I don't test my food for
poison. I don't even engage in conspicuous displays of physical
prowess to intimidate other people I encounter. It's what we call
"trust." Actually, it's what we call "civilization." All complex
ecosystems, whether they are biological ecosystems like the human
body, natural ecosystems like a rain forest, social ecosystems like an
open-air market, or socio-technical ecosystems like the global
financial system or the Internet, are deeply interlinked. Individual
units within those ecosystems are interdependent, each doing its part
and relying on the other units to do their parts as well. This is
neither rare nor difficult, and complex ecosystems abound.
